
Quiz

To check your answers, please refer to the “Chapter 9 Answer Key”.

    What is a key difference between governance and compliance?

        Governance enforces laws, while compliance manages innovation.

        Governance protects data, while compliance ensures ethical AI development.

        Governance guides decision making and risk management, while compliance ensures adherence to external and internal rules.

        Governance is optional, but compliance is legally mandatory for all companies.

    In AWS, what best describes the purpose of a defense-in-depth strategy?

        To rely on a single strong security control.

        To use multiple, layered security measures to catch threats that bypass one control.

        To automate model training and inference pipelines.

        To combine multiple security layers so if one fails, others can provide protection.

    Which AWS services would you primarily use to protect applications against denial-of-service (DoS) attacks and manage secure user sign-ins?

        Amazon GuardDuty and AWS Private CA

        AWS Key Management Service (KMS) and AWS Certificate Manager (ACM)

        AWS Shield and Amazon Cognito

        Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) and AWS WAF

    Which AWS service helps route sensitive traffic privately without exposing it to the public internet?

        AWS PrivateLink

        AWS Security Hub

        Amazon VPC

        Amazon GuardDuty

    Which of the following is an example of a governance policy for AI solutions?

        Building AI models without any human review

        Using only public datasets without checking privacy concerns

        Defining standards for data sourcing, model training, evaluation, and deployment approvals

        Allowing unrestricted model deployment to speed innovation

    Which AWS-supported compliance framework is specifically focused on protecting United States healthcare information?

        Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS)

        Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA)

        General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)

        European Union Agency for Cybersecurity (ENISA)

